This is a parametric mixure cure model that aims to estimate the results of the Phase III REGAL trial. This trial compares Galinpepimut-S(GPS), a WT1 peptide vaccine, and Best Available Therapy(BAT) in Acute Myeloid Lukemia in Second Complete Remission(AML CR2). Currently, the BAT for AML CR2 would most likely be Venetoclax(VEN) and/or Azacitidine(AZA). In order for this trial to succeed, the hazard ratio(HR) must be <0.636 to indicate GPS incures a survival benefit of 36.4% compared to the BAT.

Why do I use a parametric mixture cure model?

Just using a Weibull or Cox model assumes that every single patient will eventually have an event, or the cumulative hazard will reach ∞ as time reaches ∞. However, trial data from the phase II study of GPS in AML CR2 shows that the Kaplan-Meier(KM) curve stops declining and flattens. This cannot happen in a standard survival model; it can't represent that. The cured(fraction π) people in this model have 0 hazard from this disease and won't die from AML CR2. The susceptible(fraction 1 - π) patients will eventually relapse and die from the disease. Their survival follows a standard parametric Weibull distribution. However, we don't know which group any patient is in. For example, a patient alive at month 60 could be cured, or just a long-tailed susceptible patient that hasn't relapsed yet. Because we can't observe group membership directly, I used the law of probability across both groups.

S_weibull(t) = exp(-(t/λ)^k)
S(t) = P(alive at t | cured) × P(cured)
    + P(alive at t | susceptible) × P(susceptible)

    = π  +  S_weibull(t) × (1 - π)

    = π + (1 - π) × S_weibull(t)
π = height of the long-run plateau

λ = the Weibull scale, found from the mOS of the non-cured patients

k = the Weibull shape, controls whether hazard is increasing(k>1), constant(k=1), or decreasing(k<1). In AML, we use k>1 because the hazard increases over time

Usually, for π, we can fit it statistically from patient-level data. However, because we don't have patient level data, we derived it from the biological characteristics and responses from the phase II population. This is where we get into the actual biology of the vaccine and AML.

GPS contains 4 WT1-derived peptides including a snythetic heteroclitic short peptide for CD8+ response(WT1-A1), 2 native long peptides(331 and 427) for CD4+ response, and a synthetic heteroclitic long peptide(122A1) for both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. So, the vaccine contains major histocompatibility complex(MHC) class I and II peptides. MHC class I molecules are for stimulating CD8+ T cells(cytotoxic T lymphocytes), and MHC class II molecules are for stimulating CD4+ T cells(memory T cells). For humans, instead of MHC, we have what are called Human Leukocyte Antigens(HLAs), which are biologically the same thing. The peptides in GPS bind into the HLA molecule's groove, which then presents the peptide complex on the cell surface. The T-cell receptor recognizes the peptide-HLA complex and gets activated. And remember, it's 4 peptides generating a combinatorial library of fragments that collectively cover a vergy large fraction of the HLA diversity in any population. HLA class I molecules include HLA-A02:01, HLA-A03, HLA-A24:02, HLA-B15:01, and others. HLA class II molecules include the HLA-DR molecules. To find out the cure fraction, we have to find out what distribution will have the best responses, and thus derive the likely amount of patients that are cured. Patients with the right HLA allele will likely have a CD8+ response, and the phase II paper showed it was 45% of the population. However, not all of these patients had a CD8+ respone; only 86% of these with HLA+. Then, from the KM curve in Figure 5, the HLA+ patients have a cure fraction where their survival stays at 57.5%. So, the probability of those that have a cure fraction is 0.45 * 0.86 * 0.575 ~= 22.25%. However, we have to remember that some patients that are HLA- also can have a cure fraction becuase of the long peptides. So, we find the probability of people that are HLA-, have a response to the long peptides, and have a cure. 55% of the population in the phase II trial was HLA-. Those with a CD4+ response were 44% of the population in phase II. Now those with a cure is harder to find. It says that all of the measured CD4+ responders never relapsed, but that's only from an n=4. The confidence interval on that says that the true relapse rate can be as high as 52.7% and you could still observe 0 relapses in 4 patients by chance. However, I think that because CD4+ response is weaker than CD8+ response, I think it is likely lower than 57.5%. This part is just a guess, but I predict it will probably be between 20 and 40%, so we'll just say 30%. So, the second term of this equation is 0.55 * 0.44 * 0.3 ~= 7.26%. So, for the full equation for π, it's 22.25% + 7.26% = 29.51%. Thus, my total cure fraction for the model is 29.51% of the GPS population in REGAL.
